welcome back again ladies and gentlemens
lazal montgomery here with you once
again for another exciting episode of
the china history podcast
as i always promise you at the end of
each episode
i was planning to uh take this subject
only up to 1911
uh the fall of the qing then i had
second thoughts and decided to throw in
a few extra decades
at no additional cost and we'll take it
up to 1949. let's see how far we can go
today
and then we'll finish off this series
next time in part 12.
last episode we looked at the rise and
fall of the tsungars from galdon to
amarsana
and over on the qing side this was
kangshi to chen long
but as the dynasty ultimately found out
trying to incorporate this
great prize into their already sizable
empire
was not easy or economical
as the 1760s unfolded the qing court
found themselves
with two main headaches in this newly
conquered land first of all
the tax base as it existed in xinjiang
at this moment in time
was insufficient to finance ongoing
operations there
and for such a massive province at any
given time there simply wasn't enough
manchu ching muscle power on the ground
they were limited in how much they were
able to enforce their rule
so the qing had to rely on carpet
baggers and local bags
to be their eyes and ears and collect
taxes but once these people were in
place they started
feasting on the local populace and as it
happens
this created social instability and
popular unrest
how many times does that happen in world
history
variations on this theme will keep
repeating over
and over and all the oasis towns and all
the basins of xinjiang
and this merciless taxation and shaken
down residents by unscrupulous officials
representing
some government the common people had
never heard of
over and over there will be uprisings
and over on the other side of the
xinjiang border no one was particularly
happy
with the new arrangement and having the
likes of
china now right on their doorstep so to
speak
not that there's anything wrong with
china but that's quite a big neighbor to
so suddenly move into your neighborhood
and there were two other empires also a
little concerned about the whole
xinjiang province thing this was russia
and britain and as soon as the 19th
century starts to unfold
those two will play a legendary
great game with china and central asia
all three nations were extremely weary
of each other and kept a tight lid on
their respective spheres of control
and they didn't want any encroachment
and what they said was theirs
even though historically speaking prior
to then
it wasn't the trees of near chins and
kyota
had stifled trade as it had always been
carried out
in central asia because of the
geopolitical situation
became quasi-partitioned between the
three great powers
russia china and britain who was able to
trade with who
became so tightly controlled that it
created an environment
unsuited to free and unfettered trade
between distant partners
something that had allowed this massive
part of the world to thrive for
so many centuries on end and right
around the 1800s
central asia for the first time in world
history
started to fall behind the rest of the
world and frankly speaking
to varying extents is still playing
catch-up
even today the richest country in
central asia kazakhstan
with all those natural resources
their economy is only ranked 55th in the
world with uzbekistan 78th
kyrgyzstan and tajikistan 142nd and
143rd
up to now in this xinjiang history
series we've only known of this great
central asian land mass as a world
leader in almost
everything i didn't mention the central
asian renaissance that lasted from the
tongue to the song
and the explosion of art science
learning and architecture not to mention
poetry and literature
this preceded the italian renaissance by
centuries
but now hard times were arriving in
central asia
just as the surrounding coastal world
and all the maritime trade was about to
soar to great heights and instead of
people in control of their own destiny
those in eastern central asia found
themselves pawns of either the russians
the british or the chinese the ensuing
economic decline of this region was
swift
and long-lasting such a far cry
from those times of all the great
conquerors of days past who we
heard of in previous episodes last time
in part 10 we looked at the qing dynasty
in its heyday
the four great emperors who got to be at
the helm when the dynasty was going
nowhere but
up and just ashwincher kangshi
yongjung chienlong means one thing
was the complete opposite two opposites
of the same empire and dynasty
unfortunately for china at this stage of
the game the technology
simply didn't exist yet that would
facilitate an easy and efficient
takeover
of xinjiang transportation and
communication was good but not good
enough to run a tight ship
so what else could the manchus do except
leave everything in the hands of the
locals and
hope for the best and the maintenance of
xinjiang
was proving to be prohibitively
expensive
and remember at the start of the 1840s
the century of humiliation had just
kicked off
so at a time like this reeling from
rebellion and only waking up to what was
happening in the rest of the world
xinjiang didn't rank that high on the
list of priorities
so things started to slip but in the
north of xinjiang at least
the first century after chin long's
conquest of this muslim land
was relatively peaceful and stable the
taurian basin had changed little and had
not yet felt the full force of the qing
dynasty
as i said the qing court subcontracted
the management of the south of xinjiang
out to the local bags
and whatever animosity or hard feelings
existed between the uyghurs and the
invaders
it was mostly directed at the manchus
and less so the han
and by 1853 the year the taiping rebels
took the city of nanjing and made it
their capital
whatever funds there were in the
treasury went to fighting rebels
the government support stopped flowing
westward the qing dynasty was
fighting for its very survival and would
have to put xinjiang
on the back burner until the last of
these rebellions were put down
that's pretty much what happened with no
one in charge
the corruption and abuse by local
officials was like nothing the region
had ever seen
taxation was out of control and uighur
men faced all kinds of dangers as
conscription and other dangers became
rife
the manchus who had the misfortune to be
serving in this part of the empire at
this time
with no love being shown to them by the
imperial court out east
their situations deteriorated to the
point where they could
no longer do their job and just became
local
forlorn fixtures of the towns they
served in
present but no longer in charge
the post-ching conquest toxic soup that
was xinjiang
and especially the taran basin led to a
great deal of suffering and
popular discontent and there were always
outside players
stirring that you know what to influence
events
and the scent of rebellion was always in
the air
so in 1864 with the u.s civil war
happening on the other side of the world
rebellion broke out
it began with the dunguns these people
were muslims but not
uyghur muslims nor were they turkic
the dungans belonged to the hui ethnic
minority
these way were han chinese who just
happen to be muslim too
there's more than 20 million hue in
china today way are all over china but
gansu and ningxia has a pretty high
concentration
in many cases they were a byproduct of
the ancient silk road and it either
married into the faith or just embraced
it early on
the chinese called them hui and the
europeans
called them dungans although they shared
a common faith they
didn't get along with the uyghurs and at
times they were terrible enemies
and the hue had had enough of being
preyed upon by local officials out to
line their pockets while the qing
dynasty was
tied up fighting for its very survival
back east
so the dungans rose up not against the
dynasty
their beef was with the manchu chinese
and mongol bureaucratic oppressors
who were squeezing them for all they
were worth and then some
everything came to a head in june 1864.
when rumors started to go around the
huay community that the tongja
emperor son of the emperor's dowager
tsushi
was going to send the military to
xinjiang and wipe them out in a
pre-emptive strike
and do away with all their bellyaching
and this rumor had
legs spreading all around xinjiang
in kucha arumchi yarkon kashgar yengesar
and then one by one throughout the
entirety of the taran basin
this dungan revolt spread and when the
fighting reached the turpan basin
in hami all signs of ching authority
were attacked
and before long all the other turkic
muslims
joined the fray these included the
uyghurs
now mind you back then they were not
calling themselves uyghurs but these
were
mostly the people who today called
xinjiang home
so what was initially a revolt led by
the hue ethnic minority
turned into a general muslim
free-for-all directed against the qing
dynasty
for grandfathering all this local abuse
meted out by their representatives that
the people had to put up with since the
conquest
at this time xinjiang's muslim
communities were not fighting amongst
themselves
though not everyone practiced their
islam the same way
they all this early in the game
generally got along and as i mentioned
no beef with the ching either
it was the utter mismanagement of the
economy that was causing all this
popular uproar
at midway through the 1860s xinjiang
developed into a
patchwork of small turfs ruled by local
strongmen
and with this breakdown in governing and
order all of those immediately to the
west of xinjiang
kazakhs uzbeks kyrgyz other
turkic peoples they saw an opening to
exploit
and this is where yaakov beg enters our
story
he's a man of history completely
enveloped in myths
legends and propaganda i'll spare you
the fluff and just
talk about what some of the history
books i read had to say
he came from what's today uzbekistan but
back then was the
kokond connet three sources i read all
differed on whether
yaakov beg was uzbek tajik or kyrgyz
the kokandes had moved in on the
western taram basin and had taken over a
sizable part
yaakov begg had made a minor name for
himself as an agitator and
adventurer and in 1865 he found himself
at the head of a small kokond
army attacking kashgar the mission was
to
displace the kyrgyz who had moved in and
taken the place over
after his first taste of victory in
kashgar
jakob beg made a decision to split from
the khokhan
connet over 1865 and into 1866
yaakov begged was neck deep in all the
fighting for local power happening in
kashgar and yarkhand
upon capturing a qing fort in kashgar
his troops carried out a massacre of
all chinese and man shoes and from this
kashgar base
yaakov begs forces throughout 1866
began taking over all the oasis towns of
the
southern tarim basin before taking kucha
in the north
in 1867. yakube
and his followers ward throughout
xinjiang for years
it was a time of constant small scale
but
vicious and gory battles with rivals
savaging each other
by 1871 pretty much all the southern
xinjiang
always the most muslim part of xinjiang
was controlled by yakub beg
and like hong shio chen did when he
became a heavenly emperor
yaakov constructed quite an elaborate
and pompous court in kashgar
very plush and filled with all the
diversity of central asia
the peoples and other cultural aspects
he began to style himself as a kind of
islamic defender of the faith and a
jihadi with this
quest to go after the chinese and manchu
infidels and
expel them from this muslim land that is
to say the parts that
he held sway over and he wasn't faking
it either
jacob begg was a true believer who
instituted sharia law
and personally saw to it that it was
strictly enforced
and just because people called
themselves muslim and prayed five times
a day
well not everyone was on board with that
strict of observance
the local uyghurs by and large weren't
so hot about the whole matter of
sharia law and the taxes too
for these long time inhabitants of the
oasis towns of xinjiang
where taxes were concerned it was always
a case of
meet the new boss same as the old boss
ephemeral
and longer-lasting powers had come
and gone always wanting the same thing
and the russians looking down at all
this from the north
oh they didn't like what they were
seeing on their southern doorstep
never wanted to pass up an opportunity
in what was
packaged up as a preemptive measure to
protect their interests from the
potential ravages of
yaakov begs soldiers and all the unrest
he was causing
they plowed into the ili valley portion
of north xinjiang
and took it over and in june 1872
the russians signed a treaty with yaakov
begg recognizing his regime as
the legitimate rulers of xinjiang and
the british
not wanting to be left out of this great
game they too
gladly got to know jakob begg and there
are a good many writings by
british diplomats and adventurers who
met yaakov beg
and wrote very colorful memories of what
his magnificent court in kashgar was
like
the british shared russia's concern for
what the rise of yaakov beg meant to
their
central asian investments and most of
all in india
but yaakov beg was an occupier not a
conqueror or freedom fighter looking to
create something new
the manchu ching had their hands full at
the moment and had to watch
helplessly at what was happening in
xinjiang
with the qing empire having its hands
full dealing with the taiping rebellion
1850 to 1864 nien rebellion 1851 to 1868
the panthe rebellion in the south in
yurnan
1856 to 1872 and these
dungan revolts 1862 to 1877
and if this wasn't enough as they were
trying to put down these rebellions
foreigners were pounding down the doors
making all manners of demands
hiyako begs troops mostly stayed in the
south of taram basin while the ching
remnants were concentrated in the north
in tsungaria and not soon after yaakov
begged took over all these towns
the tarim basin
he wore out his welcome pretty fast
between the taxes
and the breakdown in civil society
people began to
tire of his occupation and sadly
they recalled the days before yaakov beg
when well at least the trains ran on
time so to speak
during the 1870s after the conquest of
most of xinjiang bayaka beg was complete
well like the zungar's jacob begg
found his territory uncomfortably
sandwiched
in between the russians and chinese
there was a
nagging fear that china might somehow
get its act together and if that
happened it would put yaakov beg in the
same
boat that past tsungar khans found
themselves in
to shore up his security in xinjiang in
the case of any great rejuvenation in
china
yakube carried out vigorous diplomatic
relations with the russians and british
and to make nice with tyrus russia
yaakov beg offered all kinds of trading
rights for them in xinjiang
and the british they too were hoping for
relations and
after giving full recognition to yaakov
begs government in xinjiang
they allowed him to keep an ambassador
in london
how's that for interfering in china's
internal affairs
so yaakov begg was an early pioneer in
manipulating to his advantage
and these friendly relations led to
increased arms sales to yaakov beg
as well as enhancing his image in the
region as a
legend in the islamic world in order to
build his brand
in the eyes of the people jakub beg even
claimed dissent from tamerlane
and tried to wrap himself up in all
kinds of jingosid and
islamic legitimacy his strategy was to
build up his power
and use his diplomatic relations with
britain
to ward off any potential recovery of
china
and that way if the qing dynasty was
able to be taken off their respirator
and decided to return and reconquer
xinjiang
he'd be able to keep them out but
looking at the condition of the qing
dynasty
no one in their right mind could see
them rising to the occasion
they were a living breathing definition
of a dying empire
the russians and british played their
great game to protect their own
interests in asia
and yaakov beg was tangled up with all
the strange
machinations of these two great 19th
century empires
back in beijing the same old argument
was being fought at court over the
importance
and criticality of xinjiang to the qing
empire
lined up on one side were the proponents
of making xinjiang part of
china and on the other side were all
those who said that place
wasn't worth the price never had the
treasury been more empty at a time when
funds were desperately needed to fund a
budding military and keep up with
reparations
and many argued that well what was the
use of wasting money to reconquer
xinjiang
if the cost to hold on to it meant it
would surely be lost
again from any angle you looked at
xinjiang
from the chinese perspective it wasn't
looking terribly promising
they needed both a miracle and a hero
and that my friends is where the man
behind the great american dish
general tsaw's chicken enters our story
this man was one of china's greatest
modern warriors
he took part in all the rebellions of
the day fighting against the taipings
nien and donggan rebels besides his
military service to china
zhou zhong tang also later served as a
high-ranking official
and was a scholar to boot and very
accomplished in agriculture
bringing this particular expertise he
had to all the places he served
ontang famously came from hunan from the
city of yueyong
not very far from where the great true
kingdom scholar and poet from the
warring states period
chu yeran committed suicide
general tsaw controlled a highly trained
army mostly made up of hunanis
and if you remember from that warlord
series i mentioned sankofan
and his hunan army the army
chong tang controlled was also called
the hunan army but
had a different chinese name than the
one created and led by
zangoifan and as i said he fought in
both the taiping
and yen rebellions by this time in the
dynasty
the manchus knew they were way in over
their heads with world events
happening so fast and furiously from
here on out
all the important stuff in the country
was left to the chinese
especially where national defense was
concerned
after a good showing against the
taipings in 1866
was made governor general of gansu in
shanxi
northwest china there he led the fight
to put down the nian rebels who had
caused so much economic devastation
in the north of china the dungan revolt
was still going on but they would have
to wait
until 1873 after zotong tang's hunan
army was finished with the nyen
aside from being so destructive war
could also be a strain on the pocketbook
and what limited funds the qing treasury
had
were being fought over by other vested
interests
li hong jiang and had to contend for
those funds what was more critical to
the qing empire
coastal or frontier defense
how was lee hong zhang gonna build that
navy if all those funds
got diverted to shoring up china's
northwest frontier
with russia and beyond xinjiang's
borders
gave a compelling argument to the
emperor's court
about britain's and russia's designs and
xinjiang and how that place was
so critical to each of those two nations
respective interests
if china could not hold on to xinjiang
it would leave mongolia wide open for
exploitation by russia
and with mongolia acting as china's
buffer in the north well
beijing would be vulnerable look how
much russia had
snatched and grabbed already in the
northeast that was a convincing argument
in april eighteen seventy five zotong
tang was made imperial commissioner for
xinjiang affairs
this slot had always been filled by
manchus or mongols
never a han chinese as i said
the manchus were now more than willing
to let the chinese in these positions of
power
once got settled
he began assembling a fighting machine
000 strong and armed them to the teeth
with all the latest
western arms and killing devices from
1874 to 1876
training was ramped up and army got
prepared for the onslaught
against what yaakov begged had going in
xinjiang
and despite all the well-known
impediments to logistics and
supplying a land so far away from the
center of the country
he knew his stuff and overcame all the
logistical setbacks
that befell him prior to d-day
as i mentioned he also knew a thing or
two about agricultural science
and dealt with the grain shortage by
turning some of his troops
into farmers which is probably what most
of them were back in hunan
and to supplement what they couldn't get
from china tong tang
also arranged for grain purchases from
russia
if they were gonna fail in their mission
it wasn't gonna be because of hunger
and by the way do you know who was uh
helping to finance this reconquest of
xinjiang by
tongtang yeah good old hsbc the hong
kong shanghai banking corporation
and in addition to this financing
special taxes were raised in the
provinces to pay
their share of the cost after all with
xinjiang as part of china
everyone in china proper would be a
beneficiary in some way or another
so they had to cough up their share so
china
was betting big on xinjiang the army
totong tang was leading
was something these ancient desert and
oasis lands had never seen before
in august of 1876
general tall's army quickly took urumchi
and within three months all of tungaria
was under chin
control save for the portion of the ili
valley that russia had gone in and
grabbed
saying they'd you know give it back when
all was stable again the last thing the
russians expected
was that someone like might come along
and do away with yaakov begged so
quickly
as the hunan army was training and
preparing for these battles
yaakov beg had been busy making deals
with the
british and russians he had counted on
them to be his diplomatic allies and
support his state against any probable
invasion from the east
even after urumqi was taken yaakov
begged
scrambling for a lifeline and not
getting one saw his whole
kashgarian dream slowly go up in smoke
he had tried to play rope-a-dope with
the hunan army while a diplomatic
resolution was attempted
when defeat was imminent jakub begg
tried to cut the best deal he could
even though by the looks of it the qing
were gonna come in and take everything
whether he offered it or not
one of the intermediaries jacob begg was
pleading with on the british
side was none other than the great
synologist thomas wade
of wade giles fame he served the british
for 30 years in china
in the end yaakov begged was hoping
in exchange for submitting to the qing
he would at least be able to hold on to
kashgaria
thanks to yaakov begs friends in high
places
this deal he was offering was being
mulled over in beijing
but after the spring of 1877 the qing
forces had enjoyed a
string of victories in the tarim basin
and the total conquest of xinjiang was
now looking like
an inevitability and i wanted to mention
the general who was actually in the
field leading the troops for tsongtang
was another hunanese named leo jintang
well as i said there was this mystique
about yaakov begg so much of his life is
shrouded in legend he was going down in
defeat
what's strange is that pound for pound
yaakov begs army
on paper could have been a formidable
opponent to the hunan army
but rather than use that home field
advantage and all that modern firepower
purchased from russia he hung in there
too long
keeping his powder dry and waiting for
that
hail mary to happen with a favorable
diplomatic solution
and then all of a sudden may 30th
1877 yaakov beg died
from a stroke it said many chinese
sources said he committed suicide in
despair
you know like they said about galdon
we'll never know
all we know is that once yaakov begged
his bigger than life figure
once he was gone everything he had held
together in xinjiang started to fall
apart
right after he died there was a vigorous
scrum amongst his
allies to fill his shoes but in the end
yaakov begs kashgaria was finished
there were no competent seconds in
command waiting to take over
all the hunan army on behalf of the qing
dynasty
all they had to do was just go in and
mop up
in the end the long drawn-out battle
with yaakov begs army
never came a lot of the animus that
exists
between china's muslim citizens and the
government could trace
the root of these hard feelings back to
this time
the whole matter of us versus them
and xinjiang at least some say it all
started here
right after the fall of yaakov beg and
all the heartache that was to follow in
the
coming decades and in the beginning of
after khotan had fallen general lyo jin
tong
on behalf of zotong tong and the mon
ching jungfu
was able to pose for the camera in front
of that mission accomplished banner
the entire operation to reconquer
xinjiang
had only taken something like 70 days no
wonder tongtang got a chicken dish named
after him
leo jintang was made the first governor
general of xinjiang
and russia who in 1871 had gone and
glommed on to the ely valley portion
of the northwest xinjiang border
ostensibly to protect their numerous
citizens and interests from yaakov beg
reluctantly had to hand it over russian
and qing representatives
first signed the treaty of lavadia the
qing representative who signed it later
got chastised for agreeing to such a
one-sided document that practically
handed the wealth of xinjiang to the
russians on a silver platter
the qing imperial court in february 1880
once they had studied the details agreed
to and saw how one-sided it appeared
rejected it outright the empress dowager
tsushi
didn't like the terms of that deal but
her guy had signed it
this put both sides in an awkward
position
and all of a sudden there was talk of
war in the air
to diffuse the situation russian and
chinese diplomats met over 1880
1881 to hash out a deal
february 1881 this matter was concluded
with the treaty of saint petersburg not
the first and not the last treaty of
saint petersburg
china got its ely valley lands back but
they had to pay the tsar one million
rubles
the russians got to keep their part of
the ili valley on the other side of the
xinjiang border
there they settled many of yaakov begs
former soldiers and loyalists who feared
for their
future livelihood under the qing and
once this was settled
starting in the 1890s there began a
policy of
full blown state-sponsored homesteading
starting in northern xinjiang first and
then later in the south
urumqi who's made the new provincial
capital
still is today between 1884 and 1911
most of the officials picked to manage
the government bureaucracy in this new
province
were han chinese with more than 55
percent of these home stutters
coming from lyochin tong's province of
hunan
and this time the government tried
something new
rather than relying on the same old
system used for millennia this time the
qing attempted to institute direct
chinese control over the inhabitants no
more depending on local people to run
things there
this had been tried time and again and
it never ended up well
for whatever imperial dynasty was trying
to get in on the action there
again like everything about xinjiang
back then taking over and asserting
control was one of those
harder to implement than put on paper
kind of things
the whole notion of han chinese from far
away and without the numbers on the
ground
bossing everyone around no that sure was
a tall order not to mention a historical
recipe for
anything in between minor local unrest a
full-scale disaster
but the qing court was determined to do
this right and if this
meant building a string of confucius
institutes all over the main population
centers they'd do it even general tong
tang
serving as the viceroy out in those
parts he had said
quote if we wish to change their
peculiar customs and assimilate them
to our chinese ways we must found
free schools and make muslim children
read chinese books
recognize characters and understand
spoken language
end quote wasn't preaching some new
revolutionary idea
sometimes it worked sometimes it didn't
in 1883 with winding down
his long career of service to the
country
77 of these chinese schools had been
built
for local boys only 8 and above
it was chinese style education that you
might find in
any village in gansu or shanxi wrote
memorization
with a heavy emphasis on the words of
the sages
it wasn't until 1907 that xinjiang
joined in on the revolution
taking place in education with the
introduction of other
modern subjects as it is in any
traditional society like the uyghurs and
late 19th century xinjiang
some were okay with these chinese ways
and some weren't
and there was quite a bit of resistance
to some of these changes
many believed back then as many believe
today
the learning and education they could
receive at their muslim schools and at
their respected madrasas
of kashgar aksu and yarkhand
was good enough why was all this modern
education
mandatory for them in his final years of
life
serving as the viceroy of liangchiang in
the
east to champion the cause of making
xinjiang
a full province of china and central to
this plan
was the idea of state-sponsored han
migration to xinjiang
and of course assimilation by the local
uyghurs and other minorities
and once again just as some bureaucrats
are able to convince their leaders that
a war
or military intervention will pay for
itself so said
about xinjiang as a province of the
great qing empire
with all the opportunity awaiting and
all this chinese ingenuity and
imported foreign technology the sky was
the limit in xinjiang
he insisted the annexation and
management of the province would not
become a financial strain on the center
that is after they put up the initial
upfront investment and you know get the
whole plan launched
that was a big if if there ever was one
and zorton died a year after retirement
in 1885
72 years old he didn't live to see his
xinjiang dreams come true
to some in china saul was a great hero
and to many of the muslim persuasion
not so much we all know what was going
on in china during these years that are
so reviled in chinese history these are
the final decades of the already
way past cell by date manchu qing
dynasty
and with all that was happening in
china's coastal and
interior cities xinjiang once again
wasn't the first item on the agenda when
the imperial court in beijing
met to discuss matters at hand so let's
gather our things here and with
absolute certainty even if i have to
abruptly cut off the audio
we will conclude this long history of
xinjiang next time in part 12.
if we run long we run long you know
everyone is asking everyone for money
these days
so why should i be the exception to that
rule if you wish to contribute a few
centavos to this
worthy cause join me on patreon and get
in on what you've been missing
three dollars a month or more if you
feel so inclined up to you
all kinds of special backstage access to
your humble narrator
discounts on the chpg5 and of course
exclusive access to
all these stories from my ancient past
if patreon ain't your thang
no bother paypal dot me slash china
history podcast
enter a number hit send done the paypal
way
what else is there to say except this is
laszla montgomery
once again signing off from los angeles
california again
and treating you to join me next time
for another exciting episode
of the china history podcast